---
layout: post
title: Hacking Bristol for Fun and Profit
date: 2023-11-11 21:01:00
description: this is what included images could look like
tags: security hackathons
thumbnail: https://www.bristol.ac.uk/media-library/sites/engineering/research/cybersecurity/9A9B5048%20(1)%20(1).jpg
---

I was recently lucky enough to get invited, to represent my university at the _Bristol Cyber Defense Exercise for Critical National Infrastructure_, alongside [Marco Cook](https://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/computing/staff/marcocook/) and Jack Pearce.

The event focussed mostly on ICS/CPS devices, which is an area in which I was, up until now, unfamiliar. Most of the event took the form of a jeapordy-style CTF, with 53 challenges split into the following categories:

- PCAP analysis
- Warmup
- Logic Analysis
- Historian Logs
- Asset Discovery
- Data Exfiltration
- Access Control
- Honeypots
- Value Tampering
- Red Team

I was very thankful to have Jack and Marco work alongside me as they were able to get me up to speed fairly quickly. After a challenging and enjoyable few days, we won! What came as even more of a surprise is that I ended up getting the most points of any participant in the CTF, which I put entirely down to Marco and Jack's brilliant tutoring.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="https://www.bristol.ac.uk/media-library/sites/engineering/research/cybersecurity/9A9B5126.JPG%20(1).png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Myself and Marco Cook accepting the first prize!
</div>

My favourite task of the event was a challenge titled 'Kill My Factory', in which we were presented with a Siemens PLC connected to a PC running Factory IO. The factory consisted of four processes, blue and green lids and bases are given as an input to the factory which are then sorted by colour, followed by the green lids being placed on the green bases and visa-versa. Our goal was to distrupt this process to place green lids on blue bases.

We were given a copy of the ladder logic, but had to use the snap7 library to communicate with the PLC to change values in order to alter the operation of the factory. Luckily, Marco had some previous code which I was able to modify in order to overwrite different values within the PLC and, with a little trial-and-error, we managed to finish the challenge in time and impact the final project of the factory.

I'd like to give a big thanks to everyone at the University of Bristol for being so hospitable (and for fitting my hotel bill!). I really enjoyed the city of Bristol and hope to be back soon!
